1) What is the distinction between JDK, JRE, and JVM?
Q-2) What are the SOLID principles in OO programming, and how do they apply to Java development?
Q-3) In Java, what is the difference between an abstract class and an interface, and when should you use each?
Q-4) What is the difference between checked and unchecked exceptions in Java, and how do you handle them?
Q-5) What are some frequent memory-related concerns in Java programmes, and how do you manage memory in Java?
Q-6) In Java, what is the difference between a HashMap and a TreeMap, and when would you utilise each?
Q-7) What are the distinctions between multithreading and multitasking, and how do they differ in Java?
Q-8) In Java, what is the difference between a String and a StringBuilder, and when would you utilise each?
Q-9) What are some frequent difficulties that can arise while implementing serialisation and deserialization in Java?
Q-10 )What are some frequent security flaws in Java programmes, and how do you assure the security of a Java application
Tell me about your IT experience and projects you worked on?
What is the difference between method overloading and method overriding?
What is a marker interface in java?
What is serialization in java?
What are Functional Interfaces in java?
What is the Default method in interface?
What is the difference b/w ArrayList and LinkedList in java?
How to create custom Exceptions in Java?
int[] a= {1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8} write a code to sum of all even numbers using Java8 only. (Hint{not provided by interviewer}: Stream API)
Sort an employee list based on name and department when id, name, salary, department are given.
How to remove tomcat server dependency from Java application, as it is present in starter-web dependency.
How to add another server dependency in a Java application?
Can Controller and Service classes be different packages in Java?
Introduce yourself.
Why java is platform independent?
What is a static keyword?
What is the difference between abstract class and interface?
Explain super keyword.
Write a code and explain inheritance and polymorphism.
What is the difference between method overloading and method overriding?
Why method overriding is called run time polymorphism?
What is faster: Linear or Binary Search? (Answered)
Follow up: Why? (Answered in terms of complexity)
Differences between Stack and Queue (Answered in terms of LIFO and FIFO)
What is Dequeue? (I initially answered as removal of elements from the queue; what he was meaning to ask is Deque, or a double-ended queue)
What language did I code in? (Answered C++)
How many keywords are there in C++? (Much like a trivia question, answered can’t remember the exact number)
Explain bubble sort. (Explained in short)
Explain polymorphism. (Answered)
Name the types of polymorphism. (Answered run-time and compile-time)
Differences between method overloading and method overriding. (Named 2-3 pointers for each)
Types of inheritance in C++. (Answered 5)
What is a constructor? (Answered)
What is a destructor? (Answered)
Can a destructor be overloaded? (Answered no)
Do you know SQL? (Answered Yes)
Differences between Drop, Truncate, and Delete.
Why is the Having clause used? (Answered in terms of Aggregate Functions)
Asked me to Construct a query using Having, Where, and Group By. 
normal questions on java, c, c++ , MVC, boot, JPA, hibernate -normal OOPS concepts
java, springboot, microservices

volatile keyword
why java doesn't support multiple inheritance, what happens if we try to implement? can you explain with some example 
When we are opening a google page, which type of request it is?GET or POST or other requests
Why spring boot s required,when we have many spring components already?Advanatages of Springboot?
DIfference between HTTP and HTTPS
What type of errorcodes you get genearlly, when you access a REST webservice using browser? 
What are the things you write or configure,in your spring boot application,related to tomcat
what is REST
What are the Memory Allocations available in Java
What are functional interfaces? What is the need to have functional interfaces?
How multiple requests will be handled by single servlet instance
Underlying implementation of set
Can two threads of two different objects of same class can access a syncronized method in that class or not?
Can we write custom exception? If yes, how?


jvm jre and jdk ?
static method can be override ?
diff b/w list and set
diff b/w hashset and treeset
how sorting is performed in treeset ?
diff b/w sleep and wait?
diff b/w noclasdeffound and classnotfound exception
how u catch exception through jdbc templates
create your own custom exception class
design pattern of dispatcherservlet
modules of spring
scope of bean
prototype through singlton and vice versa ?
same class with diferent bean id in xml file and if yes then how many instances ?
mappings in hibernate
- Tell me 5 things which I can do to override any method.
- Why Strings are immutable?
- Write your own immutable class. Then following questions of Deep cloning.
- Which are the Wrapper classes in java?
- Write a program to reverse a string without using any inbuilt direct function.
- Write a program to check numbers till 10 are even or odd using recursion.
- Write a program to check given string is Palindrome or not.
- Can we write custom exception? If yes, how?
- What is contract between equals() and hashcode(). Show me by writing code if you want to override both methods.
- I have a class i.e Employee which has two properties id and name. If I want to sort list of employees by their names, what should I do?
- Difference between synchronized and Lock.
- Difference between synchronizedMap and ConcurrentHashMap.
- Producer/Consumer problem using wait and notify
- Write a program of Producer/Consumer problem using BlockingQueue.
- Spring IOC. What are different ways to achieve Spring IOC?
- Difference between BeanFactory and ApplicationContext.
- Spring Bean Lifecycle.
- How to create RESTful Webservice in Spring.
- What to do if I want to get 1st number employee details by hitting URL www.restapi.com/employee/1. Write a controller method for the same.
- What are the properties to configure Hibernate?
- What is dialect? Why is it used?
- How do we write query in Hibernate same as ‘SELECT * FROM EMPLOYEES’ in SQL?
- What are alternatives to write queries in Hibernate apart from HQL?
- Write configuration for one-to-many relationship between two classes in Hibernate.
- Difference between save() and merge().
- List<ParentClass> list = new ArrayList<ChildClass>();
What will happen?
- I have one method void method(ArrayList<String> list){}.
I’m calling this method by passing raw-type arraylist i.e. method(new ArrayList()). What will happen?
- How to convert given String to integer? If I do Integer.parseInt("chintan"); what will happen?
- What are the classes you have used for Stream io?
- What is the difference between Aggregation and Composition?